# IoT and ML based Cross-Platform Application for Designing Smart Parking
The term parking operation system generally refers to the customized tackle- ferocious systems installed in structures and promenades. The paper intends to make across-platform smart parking system that aims to alleviate parking problems by reducing the time for motorists to look for vacant positions in auto parking lots and furnishing effective parking space applications. Several reports have shown that the smart parking system alleviates business problems and drives business growth and profitable developments within that neighborhood. Still, there are numerous places where similar precious results cannot be installed due to colorful reasons, like cost and setup conditions. This design focuses on developing a parking operation system grounded on object discovery to describe vacant parking places in our council demesne where automated systems aren't installed. The parking area’s camera images are subordinated to an object discovery algorithm that marks virtual places in the area and excerpts residency information to guide incoming motorists about the vacuity and position of vacant spaces. A smart parking system that consists of a camera connected to a mobile application using cloud computing to detect vacancy positions, utilizes a reduced complexity Machine Learning model. It trains and validates the model using the realtime custom data set and the YOLOv5 algorithm. Further, IoT will be used to display reserved spaces, based on the data fetched from the model. The project will be deployed using Cloud Services.
